---
title: Customizing Components
cobeMode: static
---

# Component Types

All of the internal ACID components have their own documentation pages... because we use ACID to document ACID, of course.


## Core

## Shared

## Custom

The default custom components are purely presentational and are used to render the UI of a docsite.

They can be replaced via configuration and can be fully styled/themed.    Generally, custom components should prefer to use their shared component equivalent rather than each other, where applicable.


# Customizing Components

When creating a custom component, it is probably best to start with the existing component of the one you wish to customize.  The ACID repo is public, so you can download or cut & paste code from there.

The docsite build maps any shared or custom component for use in custom components.

```svelte
<script module>
import Button from '#shared/helper/Button'
import Markup from '#custom/main/Markup'
</script>
```

Just prefix the ID with `#shared/` or `#custom/` on import.  The build can resolve file extensions for you so it is not necessary to include them.  

Note that imports do not need to change when replacing a component.  For instance, if you have replaced the **Markup** component in the above example, then your custom implementation will be the one imported, not the original.

Custom components already have an expected interface (props) that should be supported, as internal core and shared components make use of them.  So take note of at least the required props for the component you are replacing to be sure you are implementing what's necessary for a functioning docsite.


## Data Objects

Just about everything in the docsite UI is centered around two main types of data objects - *section* and *asset*.


# The `section` Object

A section object is identified by its `name`, which corresponds to the name given to it in the `sections` config option.

Any prop named `sect` in the built-in components will accept a string value of the name of the section, or an object with a `name` property - which includes the section object itself.

A section object can have the following properties:
- `name` *string*: section identifier
- `title` *string*: display name for the section


# The `asset` Object

An asset object is identified by its `uid`, which is generated by the `toAssetId` config option at build time.  A uid is an identifier that is unique across all asset types.

Any prop named `asset` in the built-in components will accept a string value of the uid of the asset, or an object with a `uid` property - which includes the asset object itself.

An asset object can have the following properties:
- `uid` *string*: asset identifier
- `group` *string*: group name of the asset ("components" or "documents")
- `section` *string*: name of the section asset belongs to
- `title` *string*: display name for the asset
- `type` *string*: type name of the asset ("component" or "document")

Additional properties may be available specific to the asset type.


## Component Context

The following values are set internally into the Svelte component context and become available at

- **Docsite** component:
  - `page` *string* - name of the current page
- page components (where applicable):
  - `section` *string* - name of the current section
  - `asset` *string* - uid of the current asset

The Svelte context is wrapped in an assignment proxy and injected into component files (only) as global variable `ctx` so it does not need to be imported.

As an example, here we enable custom component styling by page type. 

```svelte 
<span class="main-text page-{ctx.page}">
  {@render children()}
</span>
```

As mentioned above, `ctx` is an *assignment proxy* which means you can conveniently use object property getter/setter operations on it.


# Replacing Components

Once you have created your custom component, you can use it to replace a default one.

To do this, use the `components` option in configuration.

For example, if you have a custom tag component at *src/components/Tag.svelte* (relative to the root of your project), you can replace the existing component using

```js
components:
{
    'main/Tag': 'src/components/Tag',
    ...
}
```

Components that can be replaced have the *custom* tag attached on their docpage.  That tag also specifies the ID to use in `components` for specifying the replacement module.

All of the custom components also support CSS injection (see the [styling docs](section/styling) page), so you can create custom injectables for them as needed.


## About the Docsite Build

It's worth noting that your custom components, as well as anything they import, will be pulled into the docsite build when generating the site.  

The build is equipped to handle *.js*, *.json*, and *.css*, as well as svelte files with *.svelte* or *.svt* extensions.  It can also process CommonJs modules.  If your custom component requires functionality fancier than this you may need to generate a separate bundle first before integrating your components into the docsite.
